frames -- judith butler, frames of war? (1)
"the amplitude of her sorrow took years to reach me" -- what a strong line! (2)
personifies both the earth and Beirut as female -- why? (2 + 5)
Paradise Lost has come up enough times I know I'm overdue. Like a kid with a glaring absence on a vaccination record. (5)
Most inscrutable sentence of the day: "Are not also to be considered as exiles not only people displaced from their native lands, but those who live under diverse forms of oppression, this oppression coming from foreign occupation or from their own governments?" (5)
"One exile calls to the mind another kind of exile which it intensifies, defines" -> Scarry borne out for pattern-recognition argument (6)
The imprecise turmoil wrought by the imposition of colinialism and extended by the resistance to that colonialism also weaken resistance to the quieter coercive forces, like education slipping toward exclusively French. It's a social form of unrest yielding pliability and even cooperation. Too tired to look for Arabic edutacion. Too worn down from physical destruction to fight cultural destruction. (8)
In spite of physical adjacency, others' experience can be totally opaque. Poetry penetrates that veil: "...had to read some of Mahmoud Darwich's poems to get a glimpse of [that kind of exile]" (9)
"[the war] killed a beautiful country, and what was the most extraordinary city of the XXth century: Beirut." -- what is it to kill a country or a city? (9)
Darwich, for example, uprooted twice. Never familiarity of home, never "have the casual taste for living that ordinary people can enjoy, in continuity, in familiarity with their land." What is shared/differentiates the power-robbed exile and the colonialism-empowered 'digital nomad' (for the far extreme of the same live-where&as-i-choose model that I instantiate) (11)
What a line: "...[art] gives form and substance to what otherwise would be a devouring chaos." (12)
some diasporic peoples have adapted aspects of 'home' for the road--e.g. the anti-exile practice of Jewish traditions my partner has shared with me. Other peoples have no such practices, but have traded away attachment to a 'home' story--like my white new-young-west family. Each of those strategies help address the human experience of losing access to previous home, but one of them suggests practice & expression as response while the other promotes expansion and consumption (13)
