# The ultimate unreliable narrator

Recent research has made vast new strides into a complete understanding of the older sibling's brain. For the greatest part of history, we have thought that the material construction of human brains differed on the basis of genetics and physical interference in the form of malnutrition, but that psychology and physiognomy were domains discrete from one another. Thanks to the exceptional findings of Hoffbauer and Yoshimura, a more complete picture is coming into focus. When the cerebellum reaches primary interstitial peristalsis, usually after the second or third birthday, it begins to augment and priviledge those synaptic throughput vectors which correspond most closely to reflective capability. What Hoffbauer suggested and Yoshimura later corroborated was that this universal constant of development was modulated in families with more than one child to the detriment of the older sibling. They proved that, with an R^2 value of .962, the presence of a younger sibling correlated with a 70% dampening on the older sibling's activity along those neural pathways most associated with self-reflectivity and empathy. While that finding has been revelatory, a boon to the collective effort to understand and hopefully one day treat the most acutely afflicted of our society, Hoffbauer and Yoshimura stopped short of some of the grimmer realities consequent to their discovery; they neglected to enforce the net-zero axiom of neural activity, which demonstrates holds that dampening action in one region necessitates a commesurate increase in another: an equal and opposite reaction (see: Darwin). Unfortunately, the 'opposite' reaction doesn't steer the developing mind toward a social boon as compensation--the enforcers of physics do not truck with morality--but rather sees the unspent energy applied where it is most convenient from a biophysics perspective. It is the sad but inevitable conclusion of this paper that the young, developing older-siblings minds of our society are both stunted in their development of the capability for self-reflection while they are accelerated in their development of bullishness, righteousness, and general wont-share-the-TV-remote (-ness).
