# Dispatch

## dump

italian palazzio space, hitting it on my way home from work one day, farmers market days, most recent trip
where have I been in the city that I would have visited on evey trip to New Orleans?
Frenchman street.
Dispatch from frenchman street of course.
## First trip 2013:
blurry, maison, spotted cat, etc. Overwhelming, tagging along with my bigger sibling cohort.
## Move to New Orleans:
Going on my own terms, riding bike through Frenchman. Graeme's visit, get's wasted, I pick him up and put him on my couch. He leaves the next day.
Will visits, John. We see a soul act. The beer tastes good, her voice matches the hot brass around it. Searing, commanding, at the edge of control, but just this side.
## Move back to New Orleans:
Arrive to Nola/Frenchman on Halloween. Do we drop acid? I believe so. Careened into town from New York, the road, smokey mountains, Brian's euphoric acid trip, the waiter in who-knows-where with the desserts they didn't have and the credit card that she forgot was something you hand back to the owner. Folks stay just a tiny bit.
Bicycle Michaels, a visit during the day. Dropping off my bike that needs work, the failure points. Wheels dangling from the ceiling, the reversal of the city's inclination for alive at night, this guy's character is fully on display during the daylight hours, and the shop disappears at night. Rivnuts as attachment points following the failure of my braze-ons. Not bike mike, some bullshit uptown near Tulane's campus. Too many 5-star reviews. You want the one older than stone, with peeling hand-painted signage.
## Visit with work:
Toward the end of the team's retreat to New Orleans, we walk to Frenchman from Hotel Peter & Paul. Team meeting during the daytime in the church next door. Cavernous. Three round tables separated, a couple folks grouped on just chairs. When we eat, I pull all the chairs to one table. Thick wood underfoot. Dawit improvises on the piano, I ask if he's playing Emahoy tunes because the twirl and tumble of delicate sound reminds me of her. No, just improvisation in that tradition. Two or three groups stroll to Frenchman. We find our way to [the one with longitude/latitude in its name] and trombone shorty and hot8 (I think?) take the stage. I see my coworkers dance for the first time, all of them smiling into blue, pink, purple light. We walk home in a couple different groups. While on her way back, Sarah is harassed. Someone asks her for directions, and when she approaches the car to speak with him, can see he's masturbating. She arrives back to the hotel rattled.
## Wedding visit:
Hananh, packing peanuts, illicit wine. So many cigarettes, terrible tobacco. The art market, the older man in dashing leather jacket t-shirt combination, "silver fox"/shampoo commercial hair, hand eternally driving his half-the-age partner. Some of the art: vodoo bullshit, videogame pixel art considered and reconsidired. A head with racing goggles that looping footage of a road race course. Leaning outside the market, bus pulls up blasting bounce, Big Freediah, fellow scampers off the buss and dances in front. His movements ar tight and exuberant, visibly exertive but his face is all performance. Most of the time his hips are rotated out and knees bent, as if whatever else his body is up to his groin is available to meet with another. He's bouncing. Women with big butts come out of the crowded streets to dance with him, to shake their asses generally and literally. Some plant their hands on the filthy street, making a round summit of their backside before setting off the earthquake. He pantomime's shock, crosses himself. Takes a few step farther in front of the bus and returns to his act. The bus creeps forward. People inside it are shadows. They may have abdomens, I can only see the faces and the glasses raised to within a couple inches of the curved bus ceiling. Twisting spots of red, blue, green--basic LED dance orb somewhere. Loud like unstable. Like a sonic detonation sequence has been initiated in the bus, the reactor core is exploding in a rythmic sequence of ruptured apparatuses. The dancer fatigues, climbs back aboard the bus. Applause? Maybe. Hard to discern what's what in the shrieks of hell. Behind the bus, a cowboy. His horse calm. With soft tug at the reins, the horse slows and waits, the bus waits, the dancer dances. Behind it all, cars. What is the point of them? They ooze steadily all night. I wonder if the people in them ever get out, or if it's just spectacle, a safari to view the wildlife, assured of their safe remove. Cigarettes cigarettes. I come back outside, and Hannah's made a friend. Sake? Can't remember. From New Jersey. Young and hale, eyes not wide but nearly. Shirt and hat looked fresh like he'd purchased them that morning. Probably had, it's a shopping trip? Box of fried chicken, waiting for friends, like us, making friends, like us. Conversational, but where Hannah is locked in, he's drifting with his attention, animal out of habitat. I had walked there from the wedding venue, smoking and strolling. Wedding clothes. Someone sees me in my hat, calls out that it looks good, I call back. The pallet lait at the edge of the curb a stepping stone, but wobbly, in a puddle of street juice, decaturade. The old man with the sword, sees me noticing him, stops walking to shuffle the objects between hands and pockets so that he can draw his sword to--what, draw some change? Indicate his regency? He shuffles on sometime after I've looked away. Other man has nothing about his person--tattered khaki cargo shorts, a tank top, a face smeared from alcohol, but he makes a show of his full cup, places it on top of his cap-hanging head and sets to dancing about like a bug underneath it. I never see if he get's paid. I don't know if that's what he wanted. Young white adults over from Tulane or else out of town, faces oily and blank, all of them looking for a particular image of hotness, white/performative/at a remove from their own joy. One of them blankly transports fries from tray to mouth, tray on top of hood of car. The array of poets recreating an assembly line for regurgitated lines on typewriters. All of them cosplaying as the street urchins that they actually are, costumed to fit the street that they give identity to and have done for a hundred years. I'm stone sober, smoke another cigarette. Jordan expresses feer, leans her head on my shoulder, her hand at my back. Fear and comfort. I encourage her to move to New Orleans. She claims she couldn't handle it--not the drugs and raucousness, but just the departure from familiar. I counter that she can, anyone can, many many do. We walk back to the AirBnB where we are staying. Hannah loses her filters on the way, threatens to turn around. Leaves her shoes on top of a bollard, prefers the barefoot stroll. Makes friends with a dog, hank, in the last blocks. The next day I walk past the bollard. One of the shoes is still on top of it, the other one is bulldozed in the rode, soggy from rain. 
