# fall
## Quiet

Years after that party, I'd find myself overwhelmed by my job, troubled in my family, and my subconscious would cobble for me a fresh nightmare from the parts. I touch the mark of that dream often. In it, I'm sitting on a roof edge, gaily swinging my legs. Standing at precipices dependably sends chill electricity up and down the tendons of my leg, but anchored heavily ass to tar paper I am released from the churn below, secure as the flexing tip of a grown pine. Bresee and I used to trespass the Nathan Eckstein Middle School roof and be princes of the spilling neighborhood, or dangle our legs from a Starbucks awning only twenty feet over the heads of oblivious university students. Like angels. In my nightmare he emerges smiling from the roof access shed, comes over at a jog. He doesn't slow enough, and I'm silent. The only words are once he's over the edge looking back with nascent terror: "I'm going to die." There's no more.

Night of the party was all ruckus. My brother, my bigger, older brother led me to Patrick Foley's apartment on Essex in the Lower East Side. I hadn't been in New York City very long, had made only a couple friends. When Will offered me the inheritance of his social wealth, I accepted. We rang. Pat stuffed keys to the building in a sock and threw them down to us. Up six floors, Pat was plating dishes. Bottles already half empty, guests half full.

Pat climbed the black steel ladder, heaved the hatch aside, vanished out to the roof. I stopped at the highest rung, ready to convey. Everything had to get to the roof--music (first), food, bottles, and a couple more chairs. Amaury's dog, Daisy, was loathe to part from attention. She set to whimpering as the elements of our night flowed up the chain of hands. We ferried her last, the squirming bundle giving affectionate licks at every hand-off.

In a trice, the fold-out table was laid. We flooded the roof with jollity. I sat back in an unlikely Adirondack and met Gabby. She presented an animated wit behind wide-set eyes--the spread of NYC and new Los Angeles sitting on offer alongside roasted Brussels sprouts and Zha Jiang noodles. Later, I leaned against the tent-like skylights, working a glass of wine. Amaury spoke with a thick Belgian accent, his bawdy humor and eager grin penetrated my wine haze, if not all of his words did. He glanced from time to time at Nicole, whom he will have married in two years and with whom he will raise two couple children, while she scratched at Daisy's ears. The dog, still a puppy, broke away. She wouldn't sit still long, and combed the rooftop from willing hands to interesting smells.

I was back in an Adirondack, discovering a shared interest in Frank Herbert's Dune when Nicole paused to ask, "Where's Daisy?"
The music was still loud, the conversation still rolling across the tar, but something insistent had arrived to the roof: a freshly minted silence. Nicole's question hung unanswered. She called out to Amaury again, more loudly. "Baby," she quavered. Her question even at volume couldn't match the rising silence.

Daisy had slipped over the edge. Amaury flew downstairs, Nicole wailing in Clem's arms. Someone might have cut the music--it's all silent in my mind now. I imagine Amaury ringing one of the next building's tenants at random, a beat, and then the rest of them. I imagine his words, but I can't imagine his voice. Daisy died in the car on the way to the veterinarian. 

That's not Daisy's story though. The stillness that displaced our joviality, the recognition that the laugh I had just heard over my shoulder would be the last--that wasn't Daisy's timeline. There's a gap between ours and hers. She had been trotting the dim roof, mapping it. She had peed in one corner. She would have seen the park lamps below her--what a vantage for a dog!--and run toward the sprawling city. A pocket in time swallowed her while we continued oblivious. It waited.

---

the point of plucked: peter and I finally separate, while the memories are shared, the first moment of understanding the possible finality of death, it being nudged out by something as petty as jealousy for the bowl of cherries he got to eat. Seeing family circle on him, and not me. We'd had asymmetrical attention before, but always bound to some understanding that things would sort out back to equilibrium after -- the tone of voice of one being redressed for striking the other carried the implication of restoring something. The emergency response in mom and dad rushing to peter, the tenor of panic in the air, the possibility that something irrevocable might be happening that would put my parallel consciousness on a different track making clear for the first time that we have always been on different tracks; one could end while the other continued.

## Plucked

We already ate all the best cherries. We'd been gobbling them up for weeks, well before they were properly ripe. It's a Royal Anne cherry tree. They start small and green, just a bitter skin wrapped around the pit, and then they fatten until they are thickly yellow with blotches and blushes of red. The red ones we can get to easy are gone though, and today is our last chance to pick before we head out on our Big Trip East to see Mom's uncle and a whole bunch of people she keeps mentioning and we keep forgetting. But we've already packed, and so mom said we could pick cherries for the road while they load the car.

The tree is eighty years old. It might still be growing a little, but it's already a big tree. An adult. The lowest branches, the oldest ones, reach out overhead from the trunk, and the tree house our dad built sits pretty flat in that first forking crown. Ben goes first, scrambling up the rope ladder and onto the platform. His feet are black on the bottom, stained from a summer unshod. I'm up after him, and we survey the branches for cherries. None in easy reach, but tempting clusters of five and eight bob on twigs further out. I climb over the treehouse railing and lower my belly to the bough. Even while crawling, every shift of my weight sends a shiver through the nearest leaves. The bark under my fingers is so smooth it shines except where scabby fissures break it up. I move my hands and feet one at a time, making slow progress. Ben says something behind me, but I can't hear him. I lift up a bit on my arms and start to turn toward him, but my hand slips and suddenly I'm falling. My arms are out and there's rocks, but then it's loud and bright and hot and I'm yelling, my head hurts, it hurts it hurts.

---

The car was already packed. We were set to leave, for Indiana, the reunion was set for July. Plan was we'd drive by way of the Jane and Michael Stern book, *Road Food*. Many places to eat, see the world's biggest rubber band. Plus the man who made concrete sculptures and had entombed his wife in his back yard, Sam Dinsmoor. Then the front door slammed and Ben was yelling "Peter fell on his head".
I ran out at flank speed; I needed to find my baby, what happened to him. There he was at the base of the tree, sitting and blinking pie-eyed. Ah christ, he's had a concussion. The goose egg was already forming. Did we need to take him to the hospital? I asked him some questions. Show me where it hurts.
I'm okay, I'm okay, he kep saying--the original stoic. Meanwhile, Dan was riding herd on the other three, getting them into the car and buckled. It didn't seem like a concussion. After you came and got me, I can't remember what you were doing. Floating in the background. We put some ice on it and hit the road. There was no blood and we were on a tight schedule.

---

"I mostly remember sudden panic caught up in my throat. You climbed out on that branch and fell--I can see the tree and the ladder, but maybe not from that day. I can't remember if you went up first." I say.
It's two in the morning and Peter's packing for a train that leaves in four hours. The train will take him to Seattle to see our parents. He can't remember much from that day either: his arms outstretched, rocks rushing up, the sky. 
Time wore away the details, mixed the images from that day with the other stories we share. A couple parts were durable enough to resist erosion. Sick white blazing, an egg shaped tension in my throat, a possible wrongness in the world pressing to be born, my own voice ringing alone.

---

The point of bresee drugs come-down
He'd already been having a different experience on the other side of the country, something marked by lunacy and mania, but he could still hear me--my words might become something more than I intended, fresh meaning laced in from his agitated state of mind like chatter picked up in a live recording (better metaphor?) but when I spoke it was still to my friend's face. He avoided falling, but there in the field, he still fell, slid into a place where he wasn't reachable, traced lazily but abruptly away from me to some place where he can't access me, himself, the world he built. Reduced to a dog, how the world must have looked to him then.

---

The moment of fall, it precipitates the singularity of the falling object apart from the rest, the rest observes the fall or doesn't, but the space that opens to separate the falling from the still, falling as death, associated with death, to slip down into a new experience where others can't follow you, into an underworld,

## Icarus

Bresee called me up from Seattle in the summer of 2018 and his outlook seemed to be growing steadily more positive. I thought my ship was finally coming in. “I’ve decided I’m going to be a teacher.” he said. I was elated. After five numbing years stationed at a submarine base, he’d headed back to Seattle and slipped into the darkly lit pocket of nightlife. Bresee made his living as a strip club manager and dedicated himself to pool. He doubled down on the environments and people around whom he’d always felt most at ease. The GI bill paid for some rent and some unassailable online community college classes. Bresee was making payments on a new civic. Even with all these pieces of a life pulling together, for a couple years our phone calls and visits had belied a listlessness and subsurface depression. So when he called me in New York to break good news, to tell me he as going to get in gear, study up and work, let me know the dark days were in the rearview and that he was awake for the first time in a long time, I was too excited for his upswing to doubt it. I hung up the phone aglow. I turned to my girlfriend Emily and her expression checked mine. She asked if I thought he was okay, and I said, yes, of course, that funky lyrical banter is just how we talk. Emily scowled, thought for a moment, and said that it sounded like he were manic.

Across the country in Seattle, Bresee was spinning up into a deluded hypomanic episode. Three weeks before, he’d lit a fuse to his brain with a cocktail of 900 mg dextromethorphan and 2.5g psilocybin mushrooms. The experience day-of was remarkable and strange for him, but the reverberations were sundering. By the time we were speaking, he was already struggling to keep lucid linear thought. The special delight of our talk is the constant, quiet availability of surrealism and ambiguous meaning. We spoke several times the day of that first alarming phone call. His conversation swung by the minute from epiphanic re-ordering of his life to grim prophesying of war, understanding patterns behind things, and a mounting desperate fear that his mind was racing too fast for him to withstand. All I could do for him on the phone was slow down and speak plainly. I dropped our game from my speech, assured him as best I could and called his uncles mom, our oldest friends in Seattle. If he were becoming untethered from reality, I would be the anchor.

Bresee was taken to the hospital, then escaped, naked to his underwear. He befriended a coach exercising his team at Bishop Blanchet high school, and he lent him clothes. The police arrived and persuaded him to accept a ride back to the hospital. He were locked up. He was going to die. He prayed. He raged. He was sedated, and he was kept in involuntary confinement for twelve days terrified, miserable and alone. I called in during visiting hours often, and on the other end he was as inert as a soggy pack of cigarettes--his brain too bulldozed by antipsychotics for any of his usual spark. A few days after he was released, I got back to Seattle.

Bresee bailed on his medication as soon as he was out of the hospital, and his familiar animated self came bobbing back to the surface promptly. For a day or two, it was lovely to catch midnight at Lake Washington or share a cup of tea with my mom. One morning soon, though, he asked for my help. As jubilant as the return to form had been, his thoughts were beginning to race. He set an appointment with a psychiatrist at the VA, but his recent experience had transformed all hospitals into monstrous labyrinths. I was his escort. On the way in, his eyes were wild with fright, flitting around each hallway and waiting room, but he clung to the thread of his purpose and quickly had an urgently needed antipsychotic down the hatch with a prescription in his pocket. As we left the hospital, he swung his legs. I heard his easy laugh here and there. He smoked a cigarette and then another with evident relish. On a bench bathed in cool autumn sun we sat and talked, spitballing ideas about how he might get his job back and what kind of shared apartment he might be looking for. An hour later, a tree’s shadow had crept over the bench. I paused between two thoughts, noticing how quiet he had become. I asked how he was doing. “I’m sorry Ben, I just don’t think I can understand what you’re saying right now.”
