##  profile - Jemil

Chef coat taught across belly, life inside barely contained by the clothes, punching him in the belly, fist recoils like a cartoon rubber bounce. Hair close on scalp, beard, forever scruff though, never clean shaven. Gray going grayer, but the grin looks the same now as it did when he first tasted mischief at five. Smoking since thirteen. Drunk, singing to Bobby Womack in the cab of the truck while I drive, rocking back and forth, air guitar. Soulsville (?) Across 110th street(?). Before that, cooking a party for a bunch of wealthy White people in Blue Ridge, where my uncle's confusingly wealthy girlfriend lives. Make it work. The homeless person across the street, crusty parts out of her drawers. Doughnuts, cut to tiny pieces. Scott and Doug, Douggie Fresh, chronic pain and a troubled, sweet, too-old relationship, needing anything to do, swaggering his broken hips around the kitchen, tasting and suggesting, as relevant to our operation as a parrot, but Jemil indulged him the whole time. Jemil at my sister's wedding: "This might be the only time your sister get's to have a wedding. It doesn't matter how you feel about him, you three are going up there and you're going to say something nice for her." => that after catering her wedding. When I sheared the hood off the truck. Pitty pat. The fart. Jemil with goggles on all morning, wading out into the lake, turning around, waving, plugging his nose, and falling backward into the water. Irma Thomas. Singing "an old negro spiritual" to me on the phone, this one for Martin, a good man gone down. "If walls could talk." and Julie: "People don't ever really change." Jemil cackling at me on the phone, his voice in concert with Peter's, both spending my dignity for their amusement, but only the false dignity, the one that fills up again every night and you put on like clothing in the morning when you fill your coffee cup and think of yourself as a person who is going out the front door with any kind of purpose at all.

Jemil drives the minivan down the ramp and straight down lake shore toward the water until the wheels get mushy. He doesn't park, just stops, gets out, and begins waddling. I get out and squint toward him, toward the sun. He turns once his thighs are in. His belly is round and taught and shining. He pinches his nose and smiles, waves, then collapses backward.
