# Rainbow

For a while there I was living with Stuart and Tyler, a sad pair. I believe Tyler had only a year or two on me, maybe thirty, but he looked rough. It got to a point where I'd get home from the morning farmer's market and Tyler would be on the couch with his back to the curtain-closed windows, snorting lines of cocaine and watching sports. Stuart meanwhile would be sequestered it his bedroom off the kitchen. It was always pitch dark in his bedroom, but he hung a plush black blanket over the door windows anyway. The washer/dryer was tucked in his bathroom, so I regularly had to find a little deer path through the strewn dark fabric when washing. It was hard to tell in the collected gloom when he was in bed. Stuart held impulses to drink, to make music, to march in the street. Too much of the middle was starting to show on his body the same, and he'd emerge from his bedroom with sunglasses on to bring some of the protective gloom with him from his bedroom, gathered around a scowl. Criticism of everything wrong with New Orleans and music these days, groans, howls. Loud sex with (can't remember, Kayla?).

Anyway, I took the room. It was cheap, $500/month, and in a part of town I was interested in. Lyons street, just south of Prytania. The Kingpin Bar was halfway up the block, and a tiny park across the street was home to a friendly homeless man and a semiannual outdoor costume thrift market.

From time to time when walking home I'd notice the little door that gave access to the attic space in our house. It was over Stuart's bathroom's roof, no reason to ever be up there except to spelunk. Slip had been the previous resident of our address, a drug dealer of modest notoriety, whose customers might have included the musicians who wended their way through the Maple Leaf Bar on Oak Street. All these threads came through Stuart and Tyler, the drug- and alcohol-depressed young men, too quickly aging and out of touch with any noble notion of what a man is up to.

When they lost touch with good living, or when they'd stumbled into the right kind of afternoon celebration and needed dinner in the after hours--neither of them being equal to the challenges of a knife and a pan--they'd amble down to Rainbow Grocery on Magazine. Rainbow stayed open late every night, fries and chicken tenders. I'm sure there were burgers and poboys, maybe not all night long, but it doesn't matter because the only thing to eat at two in the morning is chicken tenders atop french fry kindling. I came to patronize Rainbow in my own time. A couple shelves of convenience snacks, a hot kitchen in the back, and a robust library of shitty wine and liquor priced so cheap you could kill yourself for a twenty. 
